=== SOURCE: using_racetrack_design_tool.pdf ===
=== PAGES: 6 ===


--- PAGE 1 ---
Technical Article
How You Can Use the LDC Racetrack Inductor Designer 
Tool
Chris Oberhauser66
In my previous post, I introduced the LDC calculator tool, which you can download here. It can calculate a 
number of useful parameters for an Inductive Sensing application.
LDC devices use inductors to sense the movement of conductive targets. At TI, we commonly use spiral traces 
routed on a printed circuit board (PCB) to form sensing inductors. WEBENCH® Coil Designer is a useful online 
tool that can help you design a sensor inductor and also generate a layout.
The racetrack inductor designer tool is another useful designer in the LDC tools spreadsheet. While the 
racetrack inductor designer only calculates sensor parameters and does not generate a layout, it is quick to 
use. Simply click Racetrack Inductor Designer on the Contents tab of the LDC calculator tool, or click the 
Racetrack_Inductor_Designer tab, as shown in Figure 1. You’ll wind up on the tab shown in Figure 2.
Figure 1. Accessing the Racetrack Inductor Designer
www.ti.com
SSZTAK7 – NOVEMBER 2016
Submit Document Feedback
How You Can Use the LDC Racetrack Inductor Designer Tool
1
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 2 ---
Figure 2. Racetrack Coil Designer Tool
The LDC calculator tool is pretty accurate – typically a physical sensor will be within 10% of the calculations. For 
racetrack-shaped sensors, however, the accuracy may degrade when the ratio of the long side to the short side 
is greater than 4.
The first step in the process to design a sensor is to determine the PCB manufacturing limitations. Table 1 shows 
an example of limits from one PCB manufacturer.
Table 1. Sensor Fabrication Parameters
Sensor Parameter
Value
Comments
PCB minimum trace width/space
0.125 mm (5 mil)
Fabrication limitation
Via minimum pad size
0.6 mm (24 mil)
Fabrication limitation
Via minimum hole size
0.25 mm (10 mil)
Fabrication limitation
Sensor minimum inner diameter
0.825 mm (21 mil)
0.6 mm + 2 × 0.125 mm One via pad + two 
trace spaces
Stack-up thickness between layers
0.80 mm (32 mil)
Desired PCB thickness
Copper thickness
0.5-1.0 oz-Cu
You now need to know a few system limitations – what is the maximum possible size of the sensor, and how 
close the target can be to the sensor. I’ve summarized the values for an example system in Table 2.
www.ti.com
2
How You Can Use the LDC Racetrack Inductor Designer Tool
SSZTAK7 – NOVEMBER 2016
Submit Document Feedback
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 3 ---
Table 2. Sensor Parameters
Sensor Parameter
Value
Comments
Maximum sensor diameter
9mm (315mil)
Mechanical constraint
Target closest distance
1.8mm
Based on system mechanicals
For this example, I will use the LDC1612 and comply with the limitations from Table 1 and Table 2.  Figure 3 
shows the calculating region of the racetrack coil designer. I placed a number to the left of each parameter so 
you can follow me as I walk through each setting below.
Figure 3. Sequence to Enter Parameters
www.ti.com
SSZTAK7 – NOVEMBER 2016
Submit Document Feedback
How You Can Use the LDC Racetrack Inductor Designer Tool
3
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 4 ---
Next, follow these steps to calculate a basic sensor design:
1.
Select the appropriate LDC device – for this application, the LDC1612/4 (the LDC1612 and LDC1614 share 
the same limitations on sensor drive).
2.
Set the spacing between traces and the width of traces to the 0.125 mm (5 mil) manufacturer’s minimum.
3.
Set the spacing between layers to 32 mil.
4.
Use 1oz-CU, which is the thickest copper available, for better performance.
5.
Set the number of layers – usually two or four. Since this PCB is going to be two layers, set the number of 
layers to two.
6.
Enter the outer diameter of the inductor – 9mm is the maximum size for this example.
7.
Set the ratio to 1.0 for a circular-shaped sensor. Values larger than 1 will have a racetrack shape. The 
racetrack shape has higher inductance but a lower Q than a circular sensor. For many applications like Metal 
Touch buttons, a racetrack shape fits the available area better and enables smaller buttons than a circular 
sensor.
8.
Set the number of turns. If you set it to more than 16 turns, you will be below the minimum inner diameter of 
0.825mm from Table 1. If you set the number of turns to 13, the coil fill ratio is close to the optimum value of 
~0.3. (The 0.3 coil fill ratio is optimal for most applications, although Metal Touch applications perform better 
with lower values.)
9.
Calculate the effect of the target on the sensor by setting the distance to the target. Set the target distance to 
1.80mm, which is the spacing between the sensor and the metal surface.
10. Adjust the sensor capacitor to so that f RES’, RP’, and Q’ are within the LDC1614’s design space constraints. 
The calculator tool will indicate any parameters that are outside the design space with a red warning label on 
the appropriate parameter, as shown in Figure 4.
Figure 4. Example Error Warning Generated by the Calculator Tool
After entering your numbers, you may need to adjust the number of turns or the sensor capacitance. After trying 
several settings, I wound up with the values shown in Table 3. I chose 130 pF for the sensor capacitor so that I 
could safely use a 10% tolerance part.
Table 3. Resulting Parameters
Sensor Parameter
Value
Sensor capacitance
130 pF
Layers
2
Turns
14
Outer diameter
9.0 mm
Ratio of long edge to short edge
1
Spacing between traces
5 mil
Width of trace
5 mil
PCB thickness
32 mil
Copper thickness
1.0 oz-Cu
www.ti.com
4
How You Can Use the LDC Racetrack Inductor Designer Tool
SSZTAK7 – NOVEMBER 2016
Submit Document Feedback
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 5 ---
Because the sensor’s electrical parameters change when the target is close, you need to verify that the sensor is 
still within the valid operating range of the LDC when this occurs. With the closest target distance of 1.8 mm, my 
sensor has the electrical specifications shown in Table 4, which are within the LDC1614’s operating region.
Table 4. Sensor Parameters Due to Target Interaction
Sensor Inductance from Target Interaction
L'
2.380µH
Sensor Frequency with Target Interaction
f RES'
9.049MHz
Rp with Target Interaction
RP'
4.90kΩ
Q Factor with Target
Q'
36.3
The LDC tool spreadsheet has a lot more uses. In my next post, I’ll review the LDC0851 calculator tab.
Additional Resources
•
Check out the “Sensor Design for Inductive Sensing Applications Using LDC”.
•
To learn more about metal touch applications, download the “Inductive Sensing Touch-On-Metal Buttons 
Design Guide.”
•
Read other inductive sensing blog posts.
www.ti.com
SSZTAK7 – NOVEMBER 2016
Submit Document Feedback
How You Can Use the LDC Racetrack Inductor Designer Tool
5
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 6 ---
IMPORTANT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER
TI PROVIDES TECHNICAL AND RELIABILITY DATA (INCLUDING DATA SHEETS), DESIGN RESOURCES (INCLUDING REFERENCE 
DESIGNS), APPLICATION OR OTHER DESIGN ADVICE, WEB TOOLS, SAFETY INFORMATION, AND OTHER RESOURCES “AS IS” 
AND WITH ALL FAULTS, AND DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD 
PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.
These resources are intended for skilled developers designing with TI products. You are solely responsible for (1) selecting the appropriate 
TI products for your application, (2) designing, validating and testing your application, and (3) ensuring your application meets applicable 
standards, and any other safety, security, regulatory or other requirements.
These resources are subject to change without notice. TI grants you permission to use these resources only for development of an 
application that uses the TI products described in the resource. Other reproduction and display of these resources is prohibited. No license 
is granted to any other TI intellectual property right or to any third party intellectual property right. TI disclaims responsibility for, and you 
will fully indemnify TI and its representatives against, any claims, damages, costs, losses, and liabilities arising out of your use of these 
resources.
TI’s products are provided subject to TI’s Terms of Sale or other applicable terms available either on ti.com or provided in conjunction with 
such TI products. TI’s provision of these resources does not expand or otherwise alter TI’s applicable warranties or warranty disclaimers for 
TI products.
TI objects to and rejects any additional or different terms you may have proposed. IMPORTANT NOTICE
Mailing Address: Texas Instruments, Post Office Box 655303, Dallas, Texas 75265
Copyright © 2023, Texas Instruments Incorporated
