=== SOURCE: configure_part2.pdf ===
=== PAGES: 4 ===


--- PAGE 1 ---
Technical Article
Inductive Sensing: How to Configure a Multichannel LDC 
System - Part 2
Ben Kasemsadeh
In my previous post, I explained the benefits and configuration of a multichannel inductive-sensing system 
with the latest expansion to TI’s inductance-to-digital converter (LDC) portfolio. In this post, I’ll explain how to 
calculate the timing characteristics of single- and multichannel LDC systems.
Similar to the LDC1000, the new multichannel LDCs have a data-ready signal (DRDY) that can detect when a 
new data sample is available. Additionally, the timing of the multichannel LDCs is fully deterministic; therefore, it 
is possible to calculate when a data sample is ready without having to poll the DRDY signal or use the interrupt 
pin.
The scope plots in Figure 1 and Figure 2 show single-ended measurements of the sensor-input pin in single- 
and multichannel mode, respectively. In this example, the LDC has been configured with a relatively short 
conversion time of 128 FREF cycles (CHn_RCOUNT = 0x08), which allows high sample rates at the cost of lower 
measurement precision.
Figure 1. Single-channel Configuration Timing (Single-ended Measurement on IN0A: Yellow and IN1A: 
Cyan)
www.ti.com
SSZTCQ7 – MAY 2015
Submit Document Feedback
Inductive Sensing: How to Configure a Multichannel LDC System - Part 2
1
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 2 ---
Figure 2. Dual-channel Configuration Timing (Single-ended Measurement on IN0A: Yellow and IN1A: 
Cyan)
Timing of the LDCs is deterministic and can be broken down into:
•
Wake-up time. This is the time it takes to wake up the device from shutdown mode to sleep mode.
•
Wake-up from sleep time. This is the time that the device needs to change from sleep mode to active mode.
•
Sensor-activation time. Sensor-activation time is configured for each channel individually in the 
SETTLECOUNT_CHn registers in 0x10, 0x11, 0x12 and 0x13. It is possible to select different sensor-
activation times if the sensor characteristics differ from channel to channel. This time is specific to the 
sensor characteristic and should allow sufficient time for the sensor to settle. The time that it takes for an LC 
tank to settle depends on its Q-factor and its sensor-oscillation frequency. An LC tank with a high Q-factor 
takes longer to settle than one with a lower Q-factor, and an LC tank with a high sensor frequency settles 
faster than one with a low sensor frequency. The sensor-activation time applies when a particular sensor 
is activated. In single-channel mode, it only applies once, when sleep mode is disabled. In multichannel 
mode, sensors are automatically shut off when not in use, so the sensor-activation time applies every time 
the LDC switches channels. Setting this time too short for a given sensor design can degrade measurement 
performance. Setting it longer than it needs to be does not impact performance, but adds an additional delay 
and is therefore not advisable in applications that rely on high sample rates.
•
Conversion time. Frequency measurement takes place during the conversion-time interval, which is set in 
the RCOUNT_CHn registers in 0x08, 0x09, 0x0A and 0x0B. The time it takes to convert one sample can be 
between 80 FREF clock cycles (2µs at CLKIN = 40MHz) and 1,048,560 FREF clock cycles (26.2ms at CLKIN 
= 40MHz). Faster conversion times allow higher sample rates but lower measurement precision, as shown 
in the application curves of the data sheet. You can choose the conversion-time interval for each sensor 
individually; therefore, it is possible to meet requirements in systems where different channels have different 
specifications for measurement precision.
•
Switch delay. The channel-switch delay applies in multichannel mode only and is used to shut down one 
sensor and switch to the next sensor in the sequence.
www.ti.com
2
Inductive Sensing: How to Configure a Multichannel LDC System - Part 2
SSZTCQ7 – MAY 2015
Submit Document Feedback
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 3 ---
In summary, in a multichannel system, the dwell-time interval for a single sample is the sum of three parts:
•
Sensor-activation time.
•
Conversion time.
•
Channel-switch delay.
As shown in Figure 2, one conversion takes 1.8ms (sensor-activation time) + 3.2ms (conversion time) + 0.75ms 
(channel-switch delay) = 16.75ms per channel. If the LDC is configured for dual-channel operation by setting 
AUTOSCAN_EN = 1 and RR_SEQUENCE = 00, then one full set of conversion results will be available 
from the data registers every 33.5ms. If the device is configured in quad-channel mode instead (by setting 
AUTOSCAN_EN = 1 and RR_SEQUENCE = 10), then one full set of conversion results would take 67ms to 
complete.
To determine the timing in different configurations, see the Inductive Sensing Design Calculator Tool.
If you are using the LDC1312, LDC1314, LDC1612 or LDC1614 in your designs, be sure to check out the 
next installment in this series, when I’ll talk about the extended-range benefits and superior measurement 
performance of the LDC1612 and LDC1614.
Additional Resources
•
Learn more about inductive sensing.
•
Start designing with a multichannel LDC and order the LDC1614 evaluation module.
•
Read more blog posts about designing with LDCs, including part 1 of this series.
•
Check out this TI Design reference design for a 1-degree dial using the LDC1314.
•
Start a design today with WEBENCH® Inductive Sensing Designer.
www.ti.com
SSZTCQ7 – MAY 2015
Submit Document Feedback
Inductive Sensing: How to Configure a Multichannel LDC System - Part 2
3
Copyright © 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated

--- PAGE 4 ---
IMPORTANT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER
TI PROVIDES TECHNICAL AND RELIABILITY DATA (INCLUDING DATA SHEETS), DESIGN RESOURCES (INCLUDING REFERENCE 
DESIGNS), APPLICATION OR OTHER DESIGN ADVICE, WEB TOOLS, SAFETY INFORMATION, AND OTHER RESOURCES “AS IS” 
AND WITH ALL FAULTS, AND DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD 
PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.
These resources are intended for skilled developers designing with TI products. You are solely responsible for (1) selecting the appropriate 
TI products for your application, (2) designing, validating and testing your application, and (3) ensuring your application meets applicable 
standards, and any other safety, security, regulatory or other requirements.
These resources are subject to change without notice. TI grants you permission to use these resources only for development of an 
application that uses the TI products described in the resource. Other reproduction and display of these resources is prohibited. No license 
is granted to any other TI intellectual property right or to any third party intellectual property right. TI disclaims responsibility for, and you 
will fully indemnify TI and its representatives against, any claims, damages, costs, losses, and liabilities arising out of your use of these 
resources.
TI’s products are provided subject to TI’s Terms of Sale or other applicable terms available either on ti.com or provided in conjunction with 
such TI products. TI’s provision of these resources does not expand or otherwise alter TI’s applicable warranties or warranty disclaimers for 
TI products.
TI objects to and rejects any additional or different terms you may have proposed. IMPORTANT NOTICE
Mailing Address: Texas Instruments, Post Office Box 655303, Dallas, Texas 75265
Copyright © 2023, Texas Instruments Incorporated
